## Hedonic Home Price Prediction for Boulder

**Link to Project:** 
[Hedonic Home Price Prediction for Boulder](/html/BoulderHousingPrice.html)

**Project description:** 
This project develops model to predict the home price for single-family housing in Boulder county, Colorado. Despite powerful models that Zillow possesses for home price prediction, the always unique context of places requires more refined and site-specific models that take local characteristics into consideration for price prediction. However, such a site-specific model is difficult to build because factors that influence home price tend to be correlate with each other within the system of real estate. Moreover, a site-specific model to Boulder has limited data for model training for Boulder is not a large county, a limitation that will harm the accuracy of the model. Responding to the request for a site-specific model, we develops a Hedonic model that deconstructs the home price into the values of constituent parts including internal characteristics such as housing quality, public services and amenities such as public transit, and spatial process such as the clustering of home price. We then use the model to predict the home price in relation to changes in aforementioned features.

The final model that we develop to predict home price in Boulder explains around 72% of the fluctuation of price with a 19% range of accuracy for each price that the model predicts. Our model has o average an absolute error of 130,000 for each price prediction; comparing to the mean of housing price ($739,555), our model has a decent accuracy for prediction. The mean absolute percentage error for all prediction is nearly randomly distributed in spatial term. While our model has a slightly higher mean absolute percentage error for neighborhoods with high income, the relatively small gap (3%) between the MAPE for high-income and low-income neighborhoods suggest that the model is generalizable. Thus, we believe that our model with good accuracy and generalizability will be useful for Zillow to predict home price in Boulder county, CO.
